What is the OceanBase database
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =



OceanBase database is a financial level distributed relational database, offering community edition and enterprise edition:

* OceanBase Database Community Edition contains all the core functions of OceanBase. The source code is fully open and free to use.



* OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition is based on The OceanBase Community Edition and provides more advanced features, such as commercial feature compatibility, graphical management tools, operation auditing, secure encryption, and high availability extensions. If you want to know about OceanBase enterprise version of the related function, please refer to the [OceanBase enterprise document] (https://www.oceanbase.com/docs).






This document applies only to the OceanBase Database Community edition.

Features
-----------------------

The OceanBase database has the following features:

* High Availability

OceanBase database stores data in multiple copies on each node of the cluster, which can easily achieve high availability, ensure RPO=0, and even remote live. The failure of a single node does not affect services. Multi-copy can meet the requirements of high availability and disaster recovery from node, rack, machine room to city level, and overcome the problem of RPO >0 when the primary node is abnormal in the traditional active/standby mode of database.


* Extensible

The OceanBase database has strong scalability. It can be smoothly expanded or shrunk online to automatically balance system load after expansion. The capacity expansion or reduction process is transparent to applications.


* Low Cost

The OceanBase database can run on a general purpose server and is not dependent on specific high-end hardware, which can effectively reduce the hardware cost of users. The OceanBase database uses the LSM-Tree-based storage engine to effectively compress data without affecting performance and reduce storage costs for users.


* HTAP

The distributed parallel computing engine for OceanBase database optimizes both OLTP and OLAP applications, and supports concurrent DQL and DML execution across database nodes, truly enabling a set of computing engines to support mixed loads at the same time.


* Compatibility

OceanBase database is highly compatible with MySQL database ecosystem. The OceanBase database supports all syntax of MySQL 5.6 and can seamlessly switch with MySQL services.


* Multi-tenant

The OceanBase database implements resource isolation by tenant. Each database service instance is not aware of the existence of other instances, and the security of data of different tenants is ensured by permission control. Multi-tenant, combined with the powerful scalability of OceanBase database, can provide secure and flexible DBaaS services.





License
------------------------

OceanBase database community edition is fully open source, the use of [MulanPubL 2.0] (https://license.coscl.org.cn/MulanPubL-2.0/index.html) permits, you can free to copy and use the source code. When you modify or distribute source code, follow the MulanPubL protocol.